A "Hello, World!" program is generally a computer program that ignores any input, and outputs or displays a message similar to "Hello, World!". A small piece of code in most general-purpose programming languages, this program is used to illustrate a language's basic syntax. "Hello, World!" programs are often the first a student learns to write in a given language,<ref>{{author=url=https://books.google.com/books?id=y51NAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA74
| title=date =isbn = 9781118887820}}</ref> and they can also be used as a sanity check to ensure computer software intended to compile or run source code is correctly installed, and that its operator understands how to use it.

History

While small test programs have existed since the development of programmable computers, the tradition of using the phrase "Hello, World!" as a test message was influenced by an example program in the 1978 book The C Programming Language,<ref></ref>
<!--
                                     *
Editor's Note: We do not need to have an example for every programming language ever created. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia. Please refrain from adding examples just because we can. If you think a particular example adds something unique and valuable to the article, bring it up on the talk page, first. Thanks. (User: DragonHawk)

Addendum: there are large repositories of Hello, World! programs all over the net, in every conceivable language, and there is no need to list them all here. In fact, there is now a very comprehensive Wikibooks link: if you want to add a version for your language, do so there (you'll likely find it already exists). HERE IS NOT THE PLACE. The C version (which is not even correct in modern C) is here because it is the first in a non-obscure language, and the B example because it is the first known. There is no reason to have many others here. DO NOT ADD ANY MORE!
                                     *
-->


<syntaxhighlight lang="c">
main( ) {
        printf("hello, world");
}
</syntaxhighlight>

In the above example, the .

The C language version was preceded by Kernighan's own 1972 A Tutorial Introduction to the Language B,<ref name="langb"></ref> where the first known version of the program is found in an example used to illustrate external variables:

<syntaxhighlight lang="c">
main( ) {
    extern a, b, c;
    putchar(a); putchar(b); putchar(c); putchar('!*n');
}
 
a 'hell';
b 'o, w';
c 'orld';
</syntaxhighlight>

The program prints  was introduced as a slightly longer greeting that required several character constants for its expression.

The Jargon File reports that "hello, world" instead originated with BCPL (1967).<ref></ref>

Variations
Image:PSP-Homebrew.A "Hello, World!" program running on Sony's PlayStation Portable as a proof of concept

"Hello, World!" programs vary in complexity between different languages. In some languages, particularly scripting languages, the "Hello, World!" program can be written as a single statement, while in others (particularly many Low-low-level languages) there can be many more statements required. For example, in Python, to print the string </ref> requires the import of the input/output software library, the manual declaration of an entry point, and the explicit instruction that the output string should be sent to the standard output stream.

The phrase "Hello, World!" has seen various deviations in casing and punctuation, such as the capitalization of the leading H and W, and the presence of the comma and/or exclamation mark. Some devices limit the format to specific variations, such as all-capitalized versions on systems that support only capital letters, while some esoteric programming languages may have to print a slightly modified string. For example, the first non-trivial Malbolge program printed "Hello world", this having been determined to be good enough.<ref> The Go Programming Language. Retrieved 26 July 2011.</ref> Another notable example is the Rust programming language, whose management system automatically inserts a "Hello, World" program when creating new projects.



Some languages change the functionality of the "Hello, World!" program while maintaining the spirit of demonstrating a simple example. Functional programming languages, such as Lisp, ML, and Haskell, tend to substitute a factorial program for "Hello, World!", as functional programming emphasizes recursive techniques, whereas the original examples emphasize I/O, which violates the spirit of pure functional programming by producing side effects. Languages otherwise capable of printing "Hello, World!" (Assembly, C, VHDL) may also be used in embedded systems, where text output is either difficult (requiring additional components or communication with another computer) or nonexistent. For devices such as microcontrollers, field-programmable gate arrays, and CPLDs, "Hello, World!" may thus be substituted with a blinking Light-LED, which demonstrates timing and interaction between components.<ref></ref>

The Debian and Ubuntu Linux distributions provide the "Hello, World!" program through their software package manager systems, which can be invoked with the command </ref>

Variations of the "Hello, World!" program that produce a graphical output (as opposed to text output) have also been shown. Sun demonstrated a "Hello, World!" program in Java based on scalable vector graphics,<ref></ref>

Time to Hello World

"Time to hello world" (TTHW) is the time it takes to author a "Hello, World!" program in a given programming language. This is one measure of a programming language's ease of use; since the program is meant as an introduction for people unfamiliar with the language, a more complex "Hello, World!" program may indicate that the programming language is less approachable.<ref name="ODwyer"></ref>

Examples

: Please consult the respective programming language’s Wikipedia article for an example. Following examples are a subset of :Category:programming languages with an ISO standard.

Ada

<syntaxhighlight lang="ada">
with Ada.Text_IO;
procedure Hello is
begin
   Ada.Text_IO.Put_Line ("Hello, World!");
end Hello;
</syntaxhighlight>

ALGOL 60



BASIC

<syntaxhighlight lang="basic">
10 PRINT "Hello, World!"

</syntaxhighlight>

C

<syntaxhighlight lang="c">
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
    printf("Hello, World!\n");
}
</syntaxhighlight>

C++

<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hello, World!" << std::endl;
}
</syntaxhighlight>


;C++23

Also allowed in C++23 (and faster):<ref></ref>

<syntaxhighlight lang="c++">
import std;
 
int main()
{
    std::println("Hello, World!");
}
</syntaxhighlight>

C#

<syntaxhighlight lang="c#">
using System;

class Program
{ 
    static void Main()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
    }
}

</syntaxhighlight>or, using top-level statements (starting in C# 9):<ref></ref><syntaxhighlight lang="c#">
using System;

Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
</syntaxhighlight>

COBOL

<syntaxhighlight lang="cobolfree">
IDENTIFICATION DIVISION.
PROGRAM-ID. HELLO-WORLD.
PROCEDURE DIVISION.
    DISPLAY 'Hello, World!'.
    STOP RUN.
</syntaxhighlight>

Forth

<syntaxhighlight lang="forth">
." Hello, World!" CR
</syntaxhighlight>

Fortran

<syntaxhighlight lang="fortran">
program Hello
  print *, "Hello, World!"
end program Hello
</syntaxhighlight>

JavaScript

For browser console/JavaScript runtime (such as Node.js):<syntaxhighlight lang="javascript">
console.log("Hello, World!");
</syntaxhighlight>
For HTML document:
<syntaxhighlight lang="javascript">
document.write("Hello, World!");
</syntaxhighlight>
or
<syntaxhighlight lang="javascript">
alert("Hello, World!");
</syntaxhighlight>

Pascal

<syntaxhighlight lang="pascal">
program hello(output);
begin
    writeln('Hello, World!');
end.
</syntaxhighlight>

Prolog

<syntaxhighlight lang="prolog">
main() :- write("Hello, World!"), nl.
</syntaxhighlight>

Python

<syntaxhighlight lang="python">
print("Hello, World!")
</syntaxhighlight>

Ruby

<syntaxhighlight lang="ruby">
puts "Hello, World!"
</syntaxhighlight>

Rust

<syntaxhighlight lang="rust">
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, World!");
}
</syntaxhighlight>
Scala
<syntaxhighlight lang="scala">
object HelloWorld {
  def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = {
    println("Hello, world!")
  }
}

</syntaxhighlight>

See also


*"99 Bottles of Beer" as used in computer science
* (graphic equivalent to "Hello, World!" for old hardware)
*
*Foobar
*Java Pet Store
*Just another Perl hacker
*Outline of computer science
*TPK algorithm

References


External links


*[http://helloworldcollection.de The Hello World Collection]
*
*
*